Hello everyone and welcome to the implementation of a stack lecture and this lecture we're going to
be implementing our own stack class.
As always there's a Jupiter notebook with notes and full code free to check out as well as some examples
of using our own stack class.
So before we begin on implementing this we want to do is just do a quick review of the properties and
methods of a stack.
We're going to be implementing.
So just a reminder from the last lecture the stack data type is defined by being structured in a way
that they're last in elements are also the first ones out.
So it's an ordered collection of items or items are added to and removed from the end the called the
top.
So we're going to do is create a stack class of the following operations.
First one is just going to be stack which creates a new stack that is empty.
It's not going to need any parameters and it's just going to return an empty stack.
The next one is going to be push that's going to add a new item to the top of the stack that needs the
item and then just returns nothing.
Pop is going to remove the top item from the stack.
It doesn't need any parameters and it will just return the item.
The stack is then modified.
Peak returns the top item from the stack but doesn't actually remove it doesn't need any parameters
.
And no the stack isn't modified so I'll show you the top item but it won't remove is empty is going
to test to see whether the stack is empty.
It won't need any parameters and will return a boolean value either true or false depending if it's
empty or not.
And then finally size will return the number of items on the stack.
It won't need any parameters and it's just going to return an integer depending on the size of the stack
.
So let's go ahead and jump over to the notebook and start implementing this.
Let's go ahead and zoom in a bit so you can get a better view.
OK first thing we're going to do is critter class.
Let's go ahead and make a stack object.
OK let's go ahead and start off by just calling self and we'll say self.
The items is equal to an empty list.
So we're going to be using the list as kind of a base off of the stack so self-taught items we have
an empty list.
So there's no items in the list.
So when we call stack we're just creating an empty stack.
We'll go ahead and maker is empty method just takes and self no other parameters and it's going to return
the boolean self items
equal to empty list.
So notice here we just return the Boolean is the items which when it starts off is just an empty list
is equal to an empty list.
If we push more items into the stack this will not be true and is empty all return false.
OK next let's go ahead and describe how we're going to push items.
So I'm going to say self and then taken an item and that's just going to be self.
The items list.
And I'm going to append to that list and append item to that list.
Next I want to see if I can pop items from the list.
In that case we actually don't need any parameters.
We're just going to take the last one in the first one out.
So we're going to just use the lists built in method of popping so softer items that pop.
You'll notice that illest behaves very much like a stack in general and then go ahead and create peek
which is going to be the top item.
But we're actually not going to pop it out.
We're just going to return what it is without affecting the actual stack.
So in order to do that I'm going to go ahead and use some slicing.
So I have my self-taught items which is that list of all the items in the stack and then I'm going to
say from length of softer items
minus one return that so that's going to return that top item.
The last one that was put in.
Go ahead and check out the slicing for yourself in this indexing to make sure it makes sense to you
.
But basically it's just the length minus one because indexing starts at zero.
Okay and then lastly we're going to make a size method and that's just going to return the length of
softer items.
OK so that's it.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Then going to create a stack called S..
Well let's zoom in on our time here so we can really see what's going on.
And let's go ahead and prints.
S is empty and confirmed that that's true.
So it is true.
Note how I have the close parentheses since I'm actually calling the method and not passing parameters
.
So is empty right now.
Let's go ahead and push an item to the top of it.
So now we have push and let's go ahead and push another item.
This case will do a string too.
And let's take a peek at our stack.
Notice that shows us too.
Let's go ahead and push in another item we'll push in a boolean this time.
True.
And how about we check the size of our stack.
So we should have 3 items which makes sense.
The integer 1 the string 2 and then that boolean true.
So let's check if it's empty now.
It shouldn't be.
But let's make sure function or our method is working is empty false.
So looks like that's working well.
Let's go ahead and pop up all the items and see if we can empty out the stack.
So I'm going to pop out item.
So that's going to be that boolean we put in.
We pop in another one.
Think for a second what it should be should be that string.
There it is.
And then finally we should pop out the integer.
So go check if it's empty now and it is empty.
OK great.
So it took big advantage of the similarities between a list in Python and its built in properties and
how it relates to a stack.
So just keep that in mind.
But this is a pretty basic implementation of a stack.
Best thing to know about this is that last in first out principle that stacks have OK.
That being said go ahead and follow along with the code.
Either here or in the example notebook.
Mixtura understand how to implement a stack and that's it.
Thanks everyone and I'll see the next lecture